 OPEN
 Unlock main entrance and disarm alarm.
 Turn on lights and Keno monitors.
 Check bathroom paper towels, toilet paper and trash.
 Fill ice caddie at bar and add ice to urinals.
 Shelve bar glasses.
 Put dishes in strainer away.
 Wash dishes that have been soaking overnight.
 Pick up trash, clean table and chairs.
 Stock pop, beer, liquor, and mixers.
 Inventory pop and add to Meijer's weekly list.
 Inventory mixers and add to Gordon's weekly list.
 Cut lemon and lime if needed.
 Count Keno drawer, cash register drawer, pull tab drawer, and bank bag.
 Sign On Keno machine. (See code under the drawer.)
 "Start the Day" on the cash register. (one cash no sale).
 Turn on "Open" signs.
 Unlock porch.
 Weigh out and bag portions of food.
 Inventory food and add needed items to Gordon's and/or Meijer's weekly list.
 Turn on Fryer and Hood fan.
 CLOSE
 Turn off Fryer and Hood fan.
 Turn off Oven and Grill and clean.
 Do pickup around bar. Combine trash.
 Do bar dishes.
 Put away bar supplies. Dump open pop.
 Stock Pop and canned beer.
 Wipe down taps and sinks.
 Wipe down tables, bar counter and chairs.
 Vacuum carpet.
 Turn off Open signs / replace with Closed.
 Close all freezer and refrigerator doors.
 Note any low supplies. Stock Kitchen supplies per prep list.
 Do dishes in kitchen.
 Collect food trash.
 Clean Kitchen Surfaces.
 Sweep and mop kitchen.
 Clean toilets / urinals.
 Clean sinks and mirrors.
 Check toilet paper, soap, paper towels
 Collect All Trash and take out to dumpster.
 Count and record bank bag.
 Count and record pull tab drawer.
 Run Keno report for today.
 Count and record Keno drawer. Paperclip winning tickets, Keno report, and money. Place bundle in drawer.
 Run cash register reports. (See codes under drawer.)
 Count and record cash register drawer.
 Put today's take into the Day Bag. Paperclip report, money, and take sheet. Place bundle in Day Bag.
 Place money bags in safe inside the lock box.
 Place money drawers in safe along with The Daily and The Weekly.
 Close and lock safe. Scramble combination.
 Turn off Keno boards and TV.
 Lock Porch.
 Turn off lights.
 Arm alarm and exit building.


